Name: Guidry, Joseph C
Date: Nov 4, 2017
Current Module: Operating Systems
Project Name: Relay

Project Goals:
	<A two to three sentence description of the project and its intent>
	The primary goal of this project was to implement an Inter-process Communication mechanism. There were a few ways this 
	project could have been completed, I choose to use a Shared Memory space. The project intends to start a dispatcher, and 
	send messages to any number of clients. Displaying only the messages that were received. 

Considerations:
	<A bulleted list of considerations and conditions which affected the design of your project>
	- A mechanism to implement IPC.
	- The API calls to communicate with shared memory.
	- How the client will know about updated message, vs repeat message.
	- Handle Ctrl + C to act like Ctrl + D, which called from the dispatcher, will terminate all connected clients. 

Initial Design:
	<A paragraph or more that adequately describes your program's structure and layout discussing the various modules (.c and corresponding .h files) that you implemented>
	
	This project consists for three files:
	dispatcher.c : Is the server component, which will established the shared memory space, and attach to it 
				   will have read/write privileges.

	listener.c   : Is the client component, which will attach to the memory space and have read-only privileges. 

	relay.h      : Holds the structure of the data stored in the memory space.

	All clients will connect and read from the same memory space.

Data Flow:
	<A paragraph or longer describing the data flow of the program in a sequential manner.  Include a diagram when necessary.>
	
	This program requires the server program to start first, clients will look for the compiled dispatcher process name 
	"server" prior to beginning.

	Once server is running, any number of clients can be started in different terminal windows. 
	The server will receive a message through STDIN on its terminal, and copy the message into the shared memory space.
	Clients will check the message ID and if it has been changed from their stored value, it will print the message to their
	terminal screen.

	The Ctrl + C and Ctrl + D keyboard interrupts sent to the server terminal will signal to all clients to terminate. 


Communication Protocol:
	<Discuss any custom communication protocol you have used including the various request and responses that may be sent and received.>
	
	This project implements a Shared Memory space mechanism for IPC communications. 
	
Potential Pitfalls:
	<Discuss any potential issues that you might run into while creating the project>

	Have multiple writers would require the use of a semaphore to protect data.
	Using a structure with a message id, this allows the clients to know when a message is new.
	Having a client check if the server is running prior to connect to the write memory space. 

Test Plan:
	User Test:
 		<Describe the steps taken for each user test.>
		- Ensure dispatcher/clients could attach to the shared memory space, without error.
		- Push default message, ensure client could print to STDOUT.
		- Get user input, and replace default message.
		- Use GDB to verify status of dispatcher shared memory, without client. (Should of done first)
	Test Cases:
		<A brief overview of the test cases that you implemented.>
		- Conduct a through run through of server-client instantiation, as described in the supplement.

Conclusion:
	<A review of the project, what worked, what didn’t and how to improve upon your project in the future.>

	I enjoyed this project, with no restriction on the type of IPC mechanism, I was able to produce multiple versions of this project.
	The discussion about shared memory was not discussion in depth in class, but the ability to discover its uses, allow for further
	understanding of the benefits of the different IPC mechanisms.




